In this update, I'd like to talk with you about something very close to my heart, Bethel.
When I learned the truth as a teenager, I made Bethel's service a goal.
After I was baptized, I pioneered for two years, and then I came to Bethel, and I've
been here for 36 years now.
So I'm happy to talk to you about how things are going at Bethel, and how the worldwide
Bethel family is coping with the pandemic.
No doubt you'll be encouraged to hear what helps them to remain joyful in their service.
Many of you have expressed appreciation, saying that during this pandemic we have continued
to receive spiritual food.
This includes our weekly meetings, news articles on jw.org, new publications, monthly
broadcasts, convention programs, and more.
All of this is possible because of the willing spirit and hard work of our Bethel family
under challenging circumstances.
Around the world, the Bethel family has been sheltering in place.
In most cases, for about one year, our Bethelites have sacrificed opportunities to spend time
in person with family and dear friends, and they've done this with a cooperative and
willing spirit.
Why?
Because they loved Jehovah and Jesus, and because they love you.
They want to serve the needs of our worldwide brotherhood.
That's been a sacrifice for them, but we know that's also been a sacrifice for all of
you who have family and friends at Bethel, because you haven't been able to see them
in person during these difficult times.
In a sense, you've made a contribution to the work by helping members of your family
who are at Bethel to be able to stay and concentrate on their work.
What a beautiful gift your support has been.
Of course, when this all began, few imagined it would stretch on for so long.
In the following video, you'll see what some of our hard-working Bethelites have been
doing to maintain their joy and keep that kingdom work going without interruption.
Three things that I miss traveling, playing sports, and tackle stands.
I really miss my family.
Well, as I'm living on my own, the most difficult thing for me is that I miss the brothers.
I don't have as much contact with them as I did before.
But most of all, I miss my two young nieces.
I'm very close to them.
I really miss hugging the sisters and the kids in the congregation.
Everything changed overnight and very suddenly.
The brothers from outside Bethel, who came to help us with the recordings, could not do this anymore.
So the work increased considerably.
Especially for the regional convention, we had more work than ever.
Right before the pandemic, I was assigned to a new branch.
That means learning of brand new culture and starting again, developing friendships.
I didn't feel as busy as before, or as busy as I would have liked to have been.
And I have to admit, I sometimes have the feeling that I'm just not as useful as I was before.
My dad had to be admitted to a hospital because he became very ill.
And I felt helpless and guilty.
Because I couldn't do what I really wanted to do to be with my family.
Because we live in an apartment right in the city center, we can't go out.
When you're lonely and trapped inside four walls, it's very easy to get lost in negative thoughts.
I like to think about the big legal example of Joseph.
He did not concentrate on negative aspects of his situation.
But rather, he always thought of doing his best with all the assignments he was given.
Of course, the Bible has helped me a lot.
I think about Bible texts such as Psalm 94, verse 18 and 19, where it says,
Your loyal love, O Jehovah, kept supporting me.
When anxieties overwhelm me, you comforted and soothed me.
Thinking about the paradise, I picture myself with my mom and my sister, Carol,
walking along the beach and watching a beautiful sunset
will have all eternity to be together.
I do exercise every day, and I also connect with the congregation for the preaching work.
Increasing the time I spend in the preaching work has allowed me to focus on helping other people.
Auxiliary pioneering has been my window into the world outside.
When my friends and family ask me how I'm doing, I tell them that I'm okay.
We don't try to paint an unrealistic picture that all is fine and that there are no challenges,
but we try always to be positive.
My wife and I tell them to remain calm, because Bethel, they take good care of us.
But they still know that it's not easy.
Every time I see them smile in a video call, it's as if they were given my heart a big hug.
Also, doing practical things for our parents.
For example, we would connect with them and read the daily texts together.
Being a Bethel during the pandemic is a great privilege,
because it gives me the circumstance to be a source of encouragement
for those at Bethel that are going through a rough time.
But especially for the friends that are out in the front lines of this battle.
Being a Bethel makes me feel deeply indebted to Jehovah.
He's been taking care of us spiritually, emotionally and physically.
And we are here serving at Bethel as it has been said,
as the supply line to support the brothers.
I'm doing this at the most crucial moment of history,
and I'm seeing all of this up close.
That's why every sacrifice I make for this privilege is worth it.
We deeply appreciate our Bethelites,
along with their families and their congregations,
for all the sacrifices they're making and support of the Kingdom work.
We keep all of you dear brothers and sisters in our prayers.
As you saw from the video,
like you, our Bethelites deal with anxieties during the pandemic.
It's normal to have these feelings.
We know that the trials that we're experiencing are going to end.
But in the meantime, we're dealing with very real human emotions.
So what can we do to cope?
First, be honest about it with Jehovah and express to him what you're dealing with.
When David prayed to Jehovah in a time of crisis,
he said at Psalm 142 and verse 2,
Before him, I pour out my concern.
Before him, I tell about my distress.
We can do the same.
Pour out your concerns and anxieties to Jehovah.
He promises to help us cope if we have faith.
Pray for faith each day.
Along with this, keep in mind that today's problems are only temporary.
The last days had a beginning and the last days will have an end.
This pandemic had a beginning and this pandemic will have an end.
The Apostle Paul called such trials momentary.
And this is the case even more so as we move toward the end of this system of things.
At 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verses 17 and 18, he said,
For though the tribulation is momentary and light,
it works out for us a glory that is of more and more surpassing greatness and is everlasting.
While we keep our eyes not on the things seen, but on the things unseen,
for the things seen are temporary, but the things unseen are everlasting.
That inspired advice benefited the early Christians and it can benefit all of God's people today.
We command all of you for your faithful endurance and for remaining busy in your service to Jehovah.
Through your efforts along with the power of Jehovah's spirit, not only has the kingdom
were continued, but it's also moving forward and expanding in exciting ways.
One example of that is the World Headquarters Project at Ramapo, New York,
announced at the 2019 annual meeting.
Have you been wondering how the Ramapo project has been affected by the pandemic?
We're happy to share this behind the scenes report on how things have been progressing.
On the January 2020 monthly broadcast, our brothers around the world learned
that the governing body had determined it was Jehovah's direction and approval has been given
for a site dedicated primarily to media production in Ramapo.
Well, just three months later, a once in a generation event COVID-19
brought grinding to a halt the plans that large institutions even nations had in mind.
How were the plans for Ramapo affected?
Was it really the right time for Jehovah's organization to start a major construction project?
As we review the events of 2020, look out not only for clear evidence of Jehovah's direction and
blessing, but also the conclusion that Job once came to when he said to Jehovah,
nothing you have in mind is impossible for you to do.
For a period here in New York, non-essential construction activities were restricted.
However, at the exact time our project schedule required it,
the town of Ramapo started holding town board meetings over, you guessed it, Zoom.
That meant that even though we were in the midst of the unfolding global chaos,
we were still able to meet a milestone on July 8, 2020 when we had our first project meeting with
the town board. And we have clearly seen Jehovah's blessing in the meetings we have had with them since then.
We hit a second and much more significant milestone on December 9, 2020.
When the town approved our scoping document, like the homework, a teacher assigns a student
in order to pass an important grade, we now know the information we should provide the town
in order to obtain permission to start construction.
When will that be? Currently, we are on course for the end of 2021.
That is a number of months earlier than had originally been planned for.
Even before the pandemic. So just as Job said, nothing Jehovah has in mind is impossible.
Since April 2019, when the construction project committee was appointed,
the design of the site and the first buildings to be constructed has advanced tremendously.
Many key lessons taken from recent large projects have influenced the direction
that the worldwide design construction department under the direction of the publishing committee
have given. The Ramapo site is 249 acres. The buildings are about 160 feet above sterling
mine road. The primary interest of sterling mine road brings you first to the visitor center,
which will accommodate 1,200 visitors per day.
The studio building with its sound stages is in the center of the site and adjacent to the studios
are workshops. Over the ridge line is the back lot for outdoor sets and filming.
Next to the studios are the offices, reception and the events building.
This building can be configured as either a large assembly space for 1,300 attendees,
a large dining room for 1,200 people, or some yet to be defined function.
On the west of the site are residences for 1,290 volunteers.
Much time and energy has been invested in the research of the best energy options for the site.
This led to the decision to use electricity as the primary energy source. A vast geothermal
well field located beneath the studios will heat and cool the entire complex.
120,000 square feet of photovoltaic panels will create electricity, which is then stored in an
industrial grade battery bank and can thus be used at any time. The result is that the site
has its own micro grid with the ability to make, to store and then redirect energy around the site
where it is needed. Many of us who generally work in an office environment have gotten used to
working from home during the pandemic. Will that affect the need for office space on the Rambo project?
Frankly, it's impossible to predict what the configuration of office space will be in the future.
Therefore, flexibility in the layout of future office space is the most important design criteria.
The building is divided into 10 foot by 15 foot modules. Each module has a ceiling cloud above it,
containing heating and cooling unit and lighting. Power and data wiring are an erased floor to allow
for a variety of configurations and reconfigurations. Demountable partitions extend from the floor
to the deck above. They can transform one module into a single office or small conference room.
Partitions can group several modules together to form a larger conference room or the floor can
be free of partitions to work as an open plan work area. More importantly, as these
debountable partitions have no services in them, these changes can be made at any time before
or after moving into the facility as office needs are better understood. Maximizing the glass on
the facades and then the use of glass partitions inside the offices ensures that all offices have
plenty of natural light. The 10 residence buildings are oriented in a north south direction
so that all rooms will have either morning or afternoon sun. They are clustered around existing
wetlands. Careful research led to the decision to pursue a different structural system
known as mass timber. Something we've not done on previous projects of this scale.
Timber is bonded in crossed directional layers to form the structural elements of the building.
This is an increasingly familiar system robust and safe that means that the beams, the columns and
floors can be prefabricated off-site, making the structure of the building faster to put up.
And apart from being economical, time saving, and reducing the carbon footprint of the project,
it should also make for some very attractive buildings. As many filming and recording projects
will be produced at the New Ramapo facility, 50 rooms in the residence building,
closest to the center of the site, have been designed to be smaller hotel-like rooms.
That will allow for comfortable short-term stays for those here to assist as cast members or
other visitors. As mentioned, many have worked from home during the pandemic, and some prefer it.
Will it be the wave of the future? We cannot say, however, the majority of the residence rooms
will have a separate room, many with a window that can be used either as an additional storage room
or home office. Future updates will feature the central focus of this new facility,
the new AVS studios building. Although it will be the biggest we have ever constructed,
more importantly, it will bring what is presently done in many different areas,
and of course our hard work in brothers and sisters, all under one roof.
Despite a number of challenges in 2020, the Ramapo project kept moving forward.
As we look ahead, we eagerly await even further evidence that nothing Jehovah has in mind
is impossible for him to do. The amazing progress we're making with Ramapo, even in the middle of
such challenging circumstances, reminds us of Psalm 127 and verse 1.
Unless Jehovah builds the house, it is in vain that its builders work hard on it.
There's no doubt that Jehovah is helping us build the house at Ramapo.
You may have noted that the video mentioned future updates, so in time you can look forward to more
reports about the Ramapo project. When we reflect on all that's been accomplished this past year,
it's clear that Jehovah is blessing the self-sacrifice of our worldwide Bethel family.
They're like the ones described at Psalm 110 and verse 3, where it says,
Your people will offer themselves willingly. These brothers and sisters are truly offering themselves
willingly to Jehovah day after day, so please keep the Bethel family and the Ramapo project in your
prayers. We're confident that Jehovah will bless your hard work and your endurance during this
pandemic, whether you're serving in Bethel or in the field. And we know you'll show the same
zeal during the campaign to invite as many as possible to the special talk and memorial of Christ
death. It's our earnest prayer that Jehovah continue to guide and strengthen you in the days ahead.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.